[Music]
We have this AI revolution which uh
creates these enormously new better
cognitive artifacts. And how can we
deploy that in various ways to get drug
discovery superpowered
[Music]
AI helped us define the shape of the
lock, but now AI is helping us define
the shape of the key. And once we find
out how to make the key, there will be a
whole universe of materials. I'm not
even just talking about drugs. A whole
universe of materials that can interface
with biology.
[Music]
So ladies and gentlemen, locks and keys
and the two gentlemen who were just uh
behind me on video. I'm David Ignatius,
a foreign affairs columnist for the
Washington Post, uh, interloping as a as
a as a wouldbe AI uh, discussant. I'm
joined uh, by Reed Hoffman, uh, the
founder of LinkedIn, which I'm sure
everyone here knows and uses, uh, Sun
Valley Investor, and the worldrenowned
cancer scientist, Sedartha Mukerji. They
are the co-founders in addition to
everything else they've done of a new
company called Manis AI which is in the
business of drug discovery and you're
going to learn a lot more now about
about how they're doing it. Uh Reed, let
me begin with you. You were an early
investor in open AI there at the liftoff
of this amazing revolution.
>> Yep.
>> Uh and you're also a board member at
Micros Microsoft. uh your uh Monisai uh
website speaks about your mission of
disrupting
drug discovery and I want to ask you um
as someone who's a veteran of disruption
>> uh what about the the drug industry is
ripe for the disrupt disruption and how
how does Manos plan to to go about it?
>> So look ultimately um all industries go
through periods of disruption. One of
the key things that we are seeing with
um AI is the ability to apply massive
scale compute with uh data and obviously
most everyone's familiar with large
language models and what's what what's
been happening there. But there's
actually a whole bunch of different
kinds of AI work that is in that
prediction about what options are in
very complicated spaces. So um probably
most people in the room are familiar
with um you know kind of Alph Go which
you know has you know more moves in it
than there are atoms in the universe and
yet you created a an an AI Alph Go to
that could beat the world players and
now Alpha Zero and its descendants are
essentially unbeatable and that's all
through different forms of of learning
mechanisms that give you prediction. Now
in uh large language models those are
predictions of next token like what what
would likely be the next the next token
and token is you can you can say word
it's not you know it's not quite a word
it's actually more kind of a subword is
a is a structure within LLMs but that
also of course applies to biology and
that applies to you know anything from
identifying uh targets that could be the
result for targeting a therapeutic
um it could be the therapeutic molecule
itself. Um and so part of how this came
about is I was sitting talking to my
partners at Greylock and I said look
there's going to be a ton of very
interesting um uh you know kind of work
in the valley on enterprise software on
productivity software on security on
coding agents. I'll help with all of
that but I really think there's some
blind spots and part of the blind spots
are things for example like drug
discovery. And they said okay that's
cool. Well, let us know what you do. And
so I started calling, you know, my
friends. My very first call was the Sid.
Sid and I went out to a Japanese place
here in New York. And um his selection,
Sid has excellent restaurant selections.
And um
>> that's where'd you go?
>> It was in the village. It you know it I
forget the name, but it it only serves
uh uh a particular brand from a
particular place of Wagyu beef. Yes.
>> Is all I remember. because this
>> and so I was running through all of this
stuff and said well said well you know
in addition to doing all being a world
celebrated you know this not his words
my words celebrated uh uh cancer
researcher this these are his word the
next words are his I've also brought
cancer drugs to market you know that
I've and I was like no I was familiar
with the emperor and I was familiar with
your drug research I was not familiar
with that and he's like and so Sid gave
me an education on how the current phal
pharmaceut pharmaceutical drug discovery
process works and I went okay and we we
we took it down to micro slices and said
okay here's an area where current AI can
do something that's off the shelf here's
where you can build something and then
we looked at it and said okay how do you
how do you change that entire process
right and that's we said we should do a
company we should make this happen so I
want to turn to you for for your uh
piece of this um I'm sure many Most of
us have read your book Emperor of All
Melodies which is just an extraordinary
uh book won the Pulitzer Prize uh in
2011 I think
>> and coming out again in December with
five new chapters.
>> Good. So I want to ask you from your
perspective as somebody
>> thinking deeply about about cancer and
disease um as you look at this drug
discovery challenge that that you and
Reed have taken on what do you see in
terms of the the specific things we
worry about as people who are going to
get sick? Um what are the things that
you're going to begin to address in in
terms that this audience that people
watching on TV would understand? Um well
unfortunately at some point of time
all of us and I'm not trying to be uh a
downer but all of us or all of our loved
ones will get sick with something um in
the United States most likely a chronic
disease cancer heart disease
neurodeenerative disease autoimmune
diseases and so forth. So um what we
want to do is is to as Reed said dissect
the process by which the current
pharmaceutical channels work in order to
make medicines and make as much of that
AI native uh as possible. Now obviously
every chain of that can't be made AI
native yet but there are many many
chains that can be made AI native and
I'll just walk you very quickly through
them because that'll give you a sense of
the road map of where the the problems
lie and how they can be solved. So
almost always current drug discovery I'm
going to leave aside serendipity because
that's a completely different universe.
it will always continue to happen and um
to some extent you can make serendipity
AI native but I'm just going to leave
that aside for a second. Um well drug
discovery begins with target
identification which means that you
figure out what's wrong what what is the
cause. Um sometimes um you can not
always but you can sometimes boil it
down to one to two to three molecules.
Um sometimes it's just one molecule
often it's two to three molecules and
you have to intervene on them. So target
identification
should be depends on the corpus of
knowledge and that is very amenable to
becoming AI native because AI is very
good at taking vast corpuses of or
corpai of knowledge um and making them
AI native and we can talk a little bit
about how it does that. The next thing
that happens by the way and this is an
extraordinarily tedious process. Um,
often people ignore uh false positives
and false negatives in that process. AI
doesn't ignore that. That's that's one
reason to do it. So you get better drugs
at the end. The second thing that
happens and I'll run I'll run as quickly
as I can through all of this. The second
thing that happens is right now the most
common way although not the only way is
to either do rational drug design which
means that a computational or synthetic
chemist sits down with your target your
protein of interest um and tries to make
a medicine that will either block it or
activate it depending on which direction
you want to go at. Um that's rational
drug design. Um the other the other way
is to throw hundreds of millions of uh
candidate compounds uh onto your
protein, have some mechanism to check
whether it's being blocked or activated
and then figure out sort of the what's
called uh a hit. Both those processes
can be made AI native. Um, and so if you
make those AI native, you are taking
away the chance that you that you'll get
it get a hit by chance and taking away
hundreds of thousands of hours, human
hours, um, to get that hit. If you make
the design process AI native, again,
you're taking not only taking away
hundreds of thousands of human hours,
but you're also taking an incredible
expert, someone who has spent their
lifetime learning how to design a drug
and converting them into a reproducible
and scalable unit. You don't
>> Let me add in one thing here because I
think this is I was on this learning
journey from Sid and one of the key
things is not just what do you do with
the molecule that's killing you.
>> Yes. and and bind to it. But you have to
create something that doesn't bind to
other things.
>> Yes.
>> That will then kill you. The toxicity is
part of where the computation gets
actually very
>> extraordinarily interesting. Yeah. And
Yeah. Go ahead. And then just just to
finish up the last piece of this,
there's a there's a there's a refinement
process that's called hit to lead.
That's when you take a a a kind of proto
molecule and then redesign it to go into
a become a re becoming a real drug. That
process can become AI native because
there are algorithms that genetic
algorithms that will very rapidly move
you to a lead. And the final piece is a
clinical trial that can become AI native
too because uh many aspects of that
trial including you know many things we
can talk about um shall and can become a
native. So basically when we went
through this dissection process we
quickly realized that each piece of this
could become AI native.
>> So your literature about about the
company um uh focuses on something you
call project cosmos and I I want to ask
each of you to explain what that is
because talking before we came out here
it's obviously central to to what you're
going to be able to do. weed let me ask
you to go first and dis describe it you
know really in AI um terms and then
Sedartha if you speak more about the the
drug design part.
So um
one of the things that you know casual
watchers of the AI and this is what this
gets back to the reason I was setting
this up with the discussion with my
partners Greylock is they go oh you're
just building one big compute model and
the big compute model you put in tokens
and outputs tokens and ultimately by the
way when you're saying hey these are
targets and these are potential you know
potential targets these are potential uh
binding molecules those those are al
also tokenized
But unlike LLMs which are mostly these
kind of very particular kind of uh
transformers
uh and this will actually I think think
happen not just with drug discovery but
is with many forms of AI you're going to
actually have multiple types of of of
computational artifacts. So part of what
we looked at is said look there's some
places where these transformers would be
useful but there's also other places
where for example you want to take a
different approach because you want to
have the AI you know call it agent if
you will but you know artifact um uh
obey the laws of chemistry obey the laws
of physics obey the laws of biology
within the set of of how you're uh
building out uh both an understanding of
the targets and also perspective
molecules that can be cures. And what
you want to do is you want to put those
together. And part of the reason why
you're constructing a new technology
that isn't just like take Jack CBT and
say, "Oh, can you help me figure out a
target molecule for triple negative
breast cancer?" It doesn't work, right?
That's not the way it works. It's no,
you actually build specific u uh you
know um uh different kinds of AI that
work together in order to take this
enormously complicated space of biology.
Like another thing that some AI people
will say is oh we'll just simulate all
biology. Let's not wait for that. That
will take quite some time. And by the
way, can you get there fully is an
interesting, you know, kind of future
question. But so it's building those and
that's what Cosmos is.
>> So Sedartha, we were talking earlier uh
about this and you came up with a to me
powerful analogy to boxes and things
that would fit into boxes as a way of
explaining this. Maybe you you'd share
that with with the audience as well.
>> Uh yes, I'm happy to share that with the
audience. It'll take a little bit of
patience, but stay with me.
So first of all, what is project cosmos?
Cosmos fundamentally um and we often
make this distinction. Uh Cosmos is an
attempt to build a build a true
foundation model, a neurosyolic
foundation model to make new molecules
to have to do generative chemistry. And
generative chemistry is different
because it's not searching through
chemical. It's not a search function. So
you don't take a massive library.
Imagine you're solving a puzzle and
there's a missing puzzle piece. What
it's not is a search function. So one
way you could solve the puzzle is you
could solve you could take all the
pieces which may be 10 billion pieces
and say what fits and it doesn't fit
throw it away. Fit throw it away fit
throw it away. That is not what project
cosmos is. What project cosmos is is a
generative model which means that you
look at the piece of the puzzle and you
say can I generate design a molecule
that will fit into that piece of the
puzzle and thereby make a new drug but
it's completely new matter. It does not
exist in the library. It may have
fragments that exist in the library but
it's putting together those fragments
until you find the puzzle fit. So that's
the simple explanation of the difference
between generative foundational
neurosymbolic AI versus a search and
find function which is a different kind
of way of finding drugs. We're actually
doing both but our hopes are we we can
do the second. Now I'll just very
quickly summarize this box piece. Um the
way to think about this box piece is now
you could ask the question okay well
that's great. You said some fancy
things. How do you actually make a
molecule that will fit inside a
particular place? And the way you do
this, and no one has ever attempted to
do this, is to figure out what the
parameters are of that space. So to take
that space, which is inside a protein, a
hole, literally a hole, a physical hole,
but that physical hole has chemical
properties. There are some places that
are sticky. There are some places that
are curved. there are some places that
are um you know as you can imagine from
this room there is a there's a a pillar
in the middle of it. So imagine now for
a second that that entire thing is
parameterized
and it boils it becomes abstracted into
parameters and now imagine that your
molecule is also parameterized it it
just be now has a series of properties.
So what project cosmos is is essentially
to match based on learning match
parameters of the molecule to the
parameters of the space and when there's
a match it scores highly and then you
keep building that way. Now this is a
simplistic analogy and obviously there's
much more to this. It's it's this is
super powerful stuff. I need to ask the
ordinary person's basic question. Reed,
how far off is is this? How far off is
the realization of the dream that you
and Sedartha are describing?
>> Well, um this is one of the things
another thing I've learned from Sid
because um you know part of in a
regulatory agency we're we're we're not
allowed to be very explicit. What I
would say is the same kind of
amplification that you see in consumer
or work use of AI, those are the same
tools that we're using to be able to do
so call it fitting the puzzle pieces
into the box. And so we're we're very
hopeful about you know our ability to
become a drug uh factory uh through
software.
>> If you're being that careful, this must
be for real. That's all I can
all I can take. So, let me just stay on
this since you mentioned uh regulatory
concerns. Um I I wonder if um as you
look at what's happening to the world of
of public health, as you look at what's
happening the CDC, the NIH, um whether
you have concerns about the larger
framework into which this extraordinary
set of discoveries is going to be is
going to be placed and the constraints
that might be imposed, the privacy
issues that might arise. Just talk a
little bit. We're living in a world in
which, you know, our our our sense of
science and health is being turned on
its head, frankly. What do you both
think about that?
>> Well, look, you know, um public health
is a really a different concern. Uh we
are concerned about public health. Uh
for instance, um it would be wonderful
to have a new drug against multi-drug
resistant TB. Uh and uh sure enough,
it's it's an amenable problem. U the CDC
is also a different concern. What we're
really concerned about right now is the
FDA. Um, and to be fair,
uh, the FDA, aside from radical cuts in
its staff, which is a big problem, um,
but to be fair, the FDA has sort of kept
on its road. Um, it has slowed down, but
it's kept on its road. the real harm has
been done to for instance USAD to PEPAR
to the CDC which all of which we know
about the FDA because there is
ultimately I suppose because there's
bipartisan support because everyone gets
sick whether you fall on whichever side
of the political spectrum you fall on
everyone gets sick the FDA has been I
shouldn't say left alone because there
have been radical cuts cuts in it but
its path has not been deviated
fundamentally and I'm hopeful very
cautiously hopeful that the FDA's path
will not be deviated and in fact some of
the cuts will be taken back so that the
staffing can come back. So Reed, um
trying to make this non-political,
um you've you've you've um you know, um
prospered in this amazing American
ecosystem of innovation. And a part of
that ecosystem historically has been
government investment uh in science and
research in university research and the
incredible laboratories
uh that where scientists work and then
often start their own own companies. Um,
are you um what are your concerns about
whether we're damaging that fundamental
um research engine in the United States
because of significant changes in
government funding?
>> Well, I mean, we're making massive
impacts and, you know, unfortunately
these are long-term and systemic. Um I
mean I think there's a lot of I mean
part of what we had is um and have but
but it's been very damaged has been the
best scientific you know universities in
the world and they are a treasure it
doesn't mean that there aren't things
that can be improved but when you
essentially throw all all these labs are
just like organizations they have to
have budgets they have students they
have other things and when you throw
that all into deep uncertainty
um you essentially uh massively slow
down their ability to function, right?
Even as some smart people continue to
work there. And obviously the impact on
this will be felt in many future
generations just from what's happened,
you know, in this, you know, first, you
know, eight months uh so far. And so I
think it's it's a it's a it's a serious
uh it's it's a serious self harm to us
and also to the progress of science. So
thank thank you for that. Sedartha we
have two minutes left. My little clock
says um the the average person's
question I want to pause it when they
think about this new world of of health
and and drug discovery is um what about
me? You know, how old am I going to
live? I mean, so um it happens that as I
as I mentioned to you, my father is 105
years old,
>> which is pretty great.
So what I asked Sedartha was um you know
20 or 50 years from now, will we speak
of somebody who's 105 as middle-aged?
Well, so um I think it's very important
to distinguish between 105 as
middle-aged versus 105 as a healthy
middle age or as a what one might call a
dignified middle age. Um right now
people who are living to 105 uh are
living um I would say uh lives that are
on the edge. Um it's like every day is a
new day. Um and that's the that's the
reality of of what happens. They are
dying of diseases like osteoporosis
uh you know failure of blood actually
interestingly they most of them don't
die of cancer and heart disease. Most of
those people have been culled away from
the population um because of medical
reasons. Um so they die actually usually
of uh diseases like sepsis and stem cell
failure. their disease of regenerative
failure. Um
we will hopefully once we've again
hopefully attacked the frontline
diseases neurodeenerative diseases
cardiovascular diseases and cancer and
some other chronic diseases we will move
our attention we already have started
moving our attention to these diseases
of regenerative failure osteoporosis um
sepsis immune dysfunction etc etc which
is what the people who are at 105 etc
are dying of and when we do that then
they will hopefully be living healthy,
dignified, what you call middle age.
>> So, uh this is some of the most
intellectually interesting and exciting
um research that I know about. I just
want to thank on behalf of everybody
Reed and Star for joining us and telling
us about their company. Thank you very
much.
>> Thank you.